{"extracted text":"Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report Weekly / Vol. 67 / No. 26 July 6, 2018 INSIDE 738 Chagas Disease Surveillance Activities  Seven States, 2017 742 Measles-Rubella Supplementary Immunization Activity Readiness Assessment  India, 20172018 747 Notes from the Field: Adverse Event Associated with Unintentional Exposure to the Brucella abortus RB51 Vaccine  Oregon, December 2017 748 Notes from the Field: HIV Testing in Health Care Facilities  Lesotho, 2017 750 QuickStats Continuing Education examination available at https: //www. cdc. gov/mmwr/cme/conted_info. html#weekly. U. S. Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease Control and PreventionEvaluation of Occupational Exposure Limits for Heat Stress in Outdoor Workers  United States, 20112016 Aaron W. T ustin, MD1; Glenn E. Lamson, MS1; Brenda L. Jacklitsch, PhD2; Richard J. Thomas, MD1; Sheila B. Arbury, MPH1; Dawn L. Cannon, MD1; Richard G. Gonzales3; Michael J. Hodgson, MD1 Heat stress, an environmental and occupational hazard, is associated with a spectrum of heat-related illnesses, including heat stroke, which can lead to death. CDCs National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) publishes rec - ommended occupational exposure limits for heat stress (1) . These limits, which are consistent with those of the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) (2), specify the maximum combination of environmental heat (measured as wet bulb globe temperature [WBGT]) and metabolic heat (i. e. , workload) to which workers should be exposed. Exposure limits are lower for workers who are unac - climatized to heat, who wear work clothing that inhibits heat dissipation, and who have predisposing personal risk factors (1, 2) . These limits have been validated in experimental set - tings but not at outdoor worksites. To determine whether the NIOSH and ACGIH exposure limits are protective of work - ers, CDC retrospectively reviewed 25 outdoor occupational heat-related illnesses (14 fatal and 11 nonfatal) investigated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) from 2011 to 2016. For each incident, OSHA assessed per - sonal risk factors and estimated WBGT, workload, and accli - matization status. Heat stress exceeded exposure limits in all 14 fatalities and in eight of 11 nonfatal illnesses. An analysis of Heat Index data for the same 25 cases suggests that when WBGT is unavailable, a Heat Index screening threshold of 85F (29. 4C) could identify potentially hazardous levels of workplace environmental heat. Protective measures should be implemented whenever the exposure limits are exceeded. The comprehensive heat-related illness prevention program should include an acclimatization schedule for newly hired workers and unacclimatized long-term workers (e. g. , during earlyseason heat waves), training for workers and supervisors about symptom recognition and first aid (e. g. , aggressive cooling of presumed heat stroke victims before medical professionals arrive), engineering and administrative controls to reduce heat stress, medical surveillance, and provision of fluids and shady areas for rest breaks. OSHAs Office of Occupational Medicine and Nursing receives consultation requests from OSHA area offices to address medical questions that arise during OSHA work - site inspections. A master list of these consultations was used to identify 66 heat-related illness consultations during 20112016. Three consultations with missing information, 32 indoor incidents, and six that occurred near a heat source were excluded because accurate retrospective heat exposure assessments were not possible. The remaining 25 records were reviewed to assess workers personal risk factors, heat acclimatization status, workload, and clothing. Personal risk factors considered in this report were obesity (body mass index 30 kg/m2), diabetes, hypertension, cardiac disease, and use Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report734 MMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and PreventionThe MMWR series of publications is published by the Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), U. S. Department of Health and Human Services, Atlanta, GA 30329-4027. Suggested citation: [Author names; first three, then et al. , if more than six. ] [Report title]. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018; 67: [inclusive page numbers]. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Robert R. Redfield, MD, Director Anne Schuchat, MD, Principal Deputy Director Leslie Dauphin, PhD, Acting Associate Director for Science Joanne Cono, MD, ScM, Director, Office of Science Quality Chesley L. Richards, MD, MPH, Deputy Director for Public Health Scientific Services William R. Mac Kenzie, MD, Acting Director, Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services MMWR Editorial and Production Staff (Weekly) Charlotte K. Kent, PhD, MPH, Acting Editor in Chief, Executive Editor Jacqueline Gindler, MD, Editor Mary Dott, MD, MPH, Online Editor Teresa F. Rutledge, Managing Editor Douglas W. Weatherwax, Lead T echnical Writer-Editor Glenn Damon, Soumya Dunworth, PhD, Teresa M. Hood, MS, T echnical Writer-EditorsMartha F. Boyd, Lead Visual Information Specialist Maureen A. Leahy, Julia C. Martinroe, Stephen R. Spriggs, Tong Yang, Visual Information Specialists Quang M. Doan, MBA, Phyllis H. King, Terraye M. Starr, Moua Yang, Information T echnology Specialists MMWR Editorial Board Timothy F. Jones, MD, Chairman Matthew L. Boulton, MD, MPH Virginia A. Caine, MD Katherine Lyon Daniel, PhD Jonathan E. Fielding, MD, MPH, MBA David W. Fleming, MD William E. Halperin, MD, DrPH, MPH Robin Ikeda, MD, MPH Phyllis Meadows, PhD, MSN, RN Jewel Mullen, MD, MPH, MPA Jeff Niederdeppe, PhDPatricia Quinlisk, MD, MPH Patrick L. Remington, MD, MPH Carlos Roig, MS, MA William Schaffner, MDof certain medications (1) and illicit drugs. Workers were considered unacclimatized if they had started a new job within the preceding 2 weeks or if they had recently returned from an absence of >1 week. Workload was classified as light, moder - ate, heavy, or very heavy, according to ACGIH guidelines (2) . Archived climatologic data (i. e. , temperature, humidity, wind speed, and sky conditions) were obtained from the nearest National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) weather station. WBGT at the time of each incident was esti - mated using a validated heat and mass transfer model (3), and Heat Index was computed via a standard NOAA algorithm. * In cases in which the workers clothing likely impaired heat dissipation (four), clothing adjustment factors (2) were added to the estimated WBGT to determine the effective WBGT (WBGT eff) . Total heat stress was compared with the applicable NIOSH exposure limit (i. e. , the Recommended Exposure Limit for acclimatized healthy workers or the Recommended Alert Limit for workers who were unacclimatized or had per - sonal risk factors) . The sensitivity of the exposure limits was defined as the percentage of cases where heat stress met or exceeded the applicable limit. The sample consisted of 25 heat-related illnesses that occurred during outdoor work, 14 (56. 0%) of which were fatal (Table 1) . Approximately half (12 of 25) of workers had at least one predisposing personal risk factor. Workload was moderate, heavy, or very heavy in 13 of 14 fatalities; the * http: //www. wpc. ncep. noaa. gov/html/heatindex_equation. shtml. remaining fatality involved light workload in an unacclimatized worker. Estimated WBGT eff and Heat Index did not differ significantly across categories of workload or acclimatiza - tion status (Table 2) . The range of WBGT eff was 79F94F (26. 1C34. 4C) . The sensitivity of the NIOSH exposure limits was 100% (14 of 14) for detection of fatal heat stress and 72. 7% (eight of 11) for detection of conditions that caused nonfatal illness. The median Heat Index was 91F (33. 3C) and ranged from 83F to 110F (28. 3C to 43. 3C) . The Heat Index was TABLE 1. Worker demographic information and job characteristics for 25 outdoor occupational heat-related illnesses  United States, 20112016 CharacteristicFatal illnesses (n = 14) Nonfatal illnesses (n = 11) Total sample (n = 25) Age in years, median (range) 46 (2364) 17 (1553) 36 (1564) Male, no. (%) 14 (100. 0) 5 (45. 5) 19 (76. 0) Unacclimatized to heat, no. (%) 11 (78. 6) 1 (9. 1) 12 (48. 0) Known presence of at least one predisposing personal risk factor, no. (%) *9 (64. 3) 3 (27. 3) 12 (48. 0) Estimated workload, no. (%) Light 1 (7. 1) 2 (18. 2) 3 (12. 0) Moderate 5 (35. 7) 3 (27. 3) 8 (32. 0) Heavy 7 (50. 0) 6 (54. 5) 13 (52. 0) Very heavy 1 (7. 1) 0 (0. 0) 1 (4. 0) Work clothing impeded heat dissipation, no. (%) 2 (14. 3) 2 (18. 2) 4 (16. 0) * Obesity, diabetes, hypertension, cardiac disease, and use of certain medications or illicit drugs. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly ReportMMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 735 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention<91F (32. 8C) in 12 of 25 cases, including six of 14 fatalities. Among workers wearing a single layer of normal clothing (21), the minimum Heat Index was 85F (29. 4C), and four of nine nonfatal illnesses and four of 12 fatalities occurred when the Heat Index was between 85F (29. 4C) and 90F (32. 2C) . Discussion Because WBGT incorporates four environmental factors (air temperature, relative humidity, wind speed, and radia - tion [often sunlight]) that contribute to heat stress, it is the recommended workplace environmental heat metric. In 2016, NIOSH reiterated this recommendation in an updated publi - cation that defines WBGT-based occupational exposure limits (1) . The limits were derived from human experiments and have high sensitivity for detecting unsustainable heat stress in laboratory settings (4) . However, few data have documented the effectiveness of the exposure limits in real-life situations (1) . The current report partially fills this data gap. In this analysis, the exposure limits had 100% sensitivity for identifying fatal levels of heat stress in outdoor industries. This result suggests that the recommended limits are sufficiently protective of most workers. Heat Index is an apparent temperature that combines humidity and air temperature to quantify what the conditions feel like to the human body. Heat Index was designed for the general public, based on algorithms that assume a person is wearing light clothing and walking in a shaded area with a light breeze (5) . Heat Index does not account for the effects of direct sunlight, stagnant air, work clothing, and strenuous activities. Employers often obtain Heat Index information from publicly broadcasted weather reports or forecasts that do not necessarily reflect conditions at their worksites. These limita - tions preclude Heat Index from supplanting WBGT as the occupational gold standard. Nonetheless, at outdoor worksites where WBGT is unavailable, Heat Index is sometimes used to estimate environmental heat. This study demonstrates that workers wearing normal clothing are at risk for heat-related illness when Heat Index is 85F (29. 4C) . Whenever the Heat Index is 85F, employers should exercise extra vigilance and implement additional precautions (Box), which could include a more accurate WBGT-based environmental heat assessment. Current occupational Heat Index guidance might not be sufficiently protective. For example, although OSHA does not have an enforceable permissible exposure limit for heat stress, OSHA guidance states that a Heat Index of <91F (32. 8C) is TABLE 2. Summary of 25 outdoor heat-related illnesses that were analyzed to evaluate heat stress occupational exposure limits  United States, 20112016. Case no. FatalityAcclimatized to heatPersonal risk factor (s) * Workload levelClothing adjustment factor Effective WBGT Heat IndexTotal heat stress above the occupational exposure limit 1 No Yes No Light None 84F (29C) 93F (34C) No 2 Yes No Yes Light None 86F (30C) 92F (33C) Yes 3 No Yes Yes Light None 90F (32C) 103F (39C) Yes 4 No Yes No Moderate None 79F (26C) 85F (29C) No 5 Yes No Yes Moderate None 80F (26C) 86F (30C) Yes 6 No Yes No Moderate None 81F (27C) 90F (32C) No 7 No Yes No Moderate None 83F (28C) 87F (31C) Yes 8 Yes No Yes Moderate None 85F (29C) 90F (32C) Yes 9 Yes No Unknown Moderate None 86F (30C) 96F (36C) Yes 10 Yes No Yes Moderate +5. 4F (+3C) 89F (32C) 90F (32C) Yes 11 Yes No Yes Moderate None 93F (34C) 104F (40C) Yes 12 No Yes Yes Heavy None 79F (26C) 87F (31C) Yes 13 Yes No Yes Heavy None 80F (27C) 86F (30C) Yes 14 Yes No Unknown Heavy None 80F (27C) 86F (30C) Yes 15 Yes No Yes Heavy None 83F (28C) 97F (36C) Yes 16 No Yes No Heavy +5. 4F (+3C) 84F (29C) 83F (28C) Yes 17 No No Unknown Heavy None 85F (29C) 91F (33C) Yes 18 No Yes Unknown Heavy None 85F (29C) 92F (33C) Yes 19 No Yes Yes Heavy None 86F (30C) 94F (34C) Yes 20 Yes Yes Yes Heavy None 90F (32C) 110F (43C) Yes 21 No Yes No Heavy +5. 4F (+3C) 91F (33C) 90F (32C) Yes 22 Yes No Yes Heavy None 91F (33C) 110F (43C) Yes 23 Yes Yes Unknown Heavy None 92F (33C) 106F (41C) Yes 24 Yes Yes Unknown Heavy +19. 8F (+11C) 94F (35C) 86F (30C) Yes 25 Yes No No Very heavy None 87F (30C) 95F (35C) Yes Abbreviations: WBGT = wet bulb globe temperature. * Obesity, diabetes, hypertension, cardiac disease, and use of certain medications or illicit drugs.  Effective WBGT equals measured WBGT plus any applicable clothing adjustment factor. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 736 MMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and Preventionassociated with lower risk of heat-related illness unless other factors (e. g. , direct sun, little air movement, strenuous work - load, or nonbreathable clothing) are present (6) . However, six of 14 deaths in this report occurred when the Heat Index was <91F. Additional evidence supports the possibility of serious illness when the Heat Index is <91F. Fourteen percent of mod - erate to severe heat-related illnesses at a U. S. military training installation (7) and at least 25% of heat-related illnesses in Washington agriculture and forestry workers (8) occurred when the Heat Index was <90F (32. 2C) . Some employer reports of heat-related hospitalizations to OSHAs Severe Injury Reports database (9) have been associated with a Heat Index of <80F (26. 7C) . A recent mathematical analysis demonstrated that the NIOSH exposure limits can be exceeded when the Heat Index exceeds 85F (29. 4C) (10) . The findings in this report are subject to at least four limita - tions. First, some workers acclimatization status, workload, or clothing might have been misclassified. For example, all work - ers with >2 weeks of job tenure were considered acclimatized, but during early-season heat waves, some long-term workers might have been unacclimatized to heat. Second, local environ - mental heat at worksites might have differed from meteorologic data obtained from the nearest NOAA weather station. Third, the WBGT estimation algorithm was subject to small (<1C) random errors (3) and, in some cases, to uncertainties because of reliance on cloud cover as a surrogate for solar radiation mea - surements. Finally, there was an inability, possibly attributable to the studys sample size, to detect differences in environmental heat between groups stratified by workload or acclimatization status. Future research could expand upon the findings in this report to define Heat Index-based occupational exposure limits that account for physical activity and acclimatization. As part of a comprehensive program to prevent heat-related illnesses, employers should measure heat stress throughout the workday, preferably by using WBGT, and take actions to prevent exposure limits from being exceeded. When WBGT is unavailable, a Heat Index threshold of 85F (29. 4C) could be used to screen for hazardous workplace environmental heat. The comprehensive heat-related illness prevention program should also include an acclimatization schedule for newly hired workers and unacclimatized long-term workers (e. g. , during early-season heat waves), training for workers and supervisors about symptom recognition and first aid (e. g. , aggressive cool - ing of presumed heat stroke victims before medical profession - als arrive), engineering and administrative controls to reduce heat stress, medical surveillance, and provision of fluids and shady areas for rest breaks (1) . Acknowledgment Thomas Bernard, College of Public Health, University of South Florida. Conflict of Interest No conflicts of interest were reported. 1Directorate of Technical Support and Emergency Management, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Washington, D. C. ; 2Education and Information Division, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, CDC; 3Directorate of Enforcement Programs, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Washington, D. C. Corresponding author: Aaron W. T ustin, tustin. aaron. w@dol. gov, 202-693-2018. BOX. Protective measures to prevent occupational heat-related illnesses  T rain supervisors and workers about heat-related signs, symptoms, and first aid.  Designate someone to monitor heat conditions and oversee protective measures.  Provide extra protection for new workers until their bodies acclimatize to heat.  Schedule frequent breaks in a cooler location (e. g. , shade or air conditioning) .  Use validated tools, such as CDCs National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health exposure limits, to assess workplace heat stress.  Adjust schedules and workload to stay below established heat stress limits.  Recognize that lower heat stress limits are needed for new workers, those with predisposing conditions, those who perform heavy physical activity, and those who wear hot clothing.  Provide water or electrolyte-containing beverages.  Comply with applicable state workplace heat regulations. Summary What is already known about this topic? Recommended heat stress occupational exposure limits are based primarily on wet bulb globe temperature (WBGT), workload, and acclimatization status. These limits have not been validated at outdoor worksites. What is added by this report? Among 25 outdoor occupational heat-related illnesses, WBGT-based occupational exposure limits were exceeded for all 14 fatalities and for eight of 11 nonfatal illnesses. Six fatalities occurred when the Heat Index was <91F (32. 8C) . What are the implications for public health practice? Whenever heat stress exceeds occupational exposure limits, workers should be protected by acclimatization programs, training about symptom recognition and first aid, and provision of rest breaks, shade, and water. A Heat Index of 85F (29. 4C) could be used as a screening threshold to prevent heat-related illness. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly ReportMMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 737 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and PreventionReferences 1. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Criteria for a recommended standard: occupational exposure to heat and hot environments. Cincinnati, OH: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health; 2016. https: //www. cdc. gov/niosh/docs/2016-106/ 2. American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists. TLVs: heat stress and strain. Cincinnati, OH: American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists; 2017. 3. Liljegren JC, Carhart RA, Lawday P, Tschopp S, Sharp R. Modeling the wet bulb globe temperature using standard meteorological measurements. J Occup Environ Hyg 2008; 5: 64555. https: //doi. org/10. 1080/15459620802310770 4. Garzn-Villalba XP, Wu Y, Ashley CD, Bernard TE. Ability to discriminate between sustainable and unsustainable heat stress exposures part 1: WBGT exposure limits. Ann Work Expo Health 2017; 61: 61120. https: //doi. org/10. 1093/annweh/wxx034 5. Steadman RG. The assessment of sultriness. Part I: a temperature-humidity index based on human physiology and clothing science. J Appl Meteorol 1979; 18: 86173. https: //doi. org/10. 1175/1520-0450 (1979) 018<0861: TAO SPI>2. 0. CO; 2 6. Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Using the heat index: a guide for employers. Washington, DC: Occupational Safety and Health Administration; 2016. https: //www. osha. gov/SLTC/heatillness/ heat_index/index. html 7. Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center. Surveillance snapshot: reportable medical events of heat injury in relation to heat index, June September 2011. MSMR 2011; 18: 19. 8. Spector JT, Krenz J, Rauser E, Bonauto DK. Heat-related illness in Washington state agriculture and forestry sectors. Am J Ind Med 2014; 57: 88195. https: //doi. org/10. 1002/ajim. 22357 9. Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Data & statistics: severe injury reports. Washington, DC: Occupational Safety and Health Administration; 2017. https: //www. osha. gov/severeinjury/index. html 10. Bernard TE, Iheanacho I. Heat index and adjusted temperature as surrogates for wet bulb globe temperature to screen for occupational heat stress. J Occup Environ Hyg 2015; 12: 32333. https: //doi. org/10. 1080/ 15459624. 2014. 989365Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 738 MMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and PreventionChagas Disease Surveillance Activities  Seven States, 2017 Carolyne Bennett, MPH1; Anne Straily, DVM1; Dirk Haselow, MD, PhD2; Susan Weinstein, DVM2; Richard Taffner, MPH2; Hayley Yaglom, MS, MPH3; Kenneth Komatsu, MPH3; Heather Venkat, DVM3, 4; Catherine Brown, DVM5; Paul Byers, MD6; John Dunn, DVM, PhD7; Abelardo Moncayo, PhD7; Bonny C. Mayes, MA8; Susan P. Montgomery, DVM1 Chagas disease, a potentially life-threatening disease caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, has become a concern in the United States as a result of human emigration from Latin America where Chagas disease is endemic (1) . It is estimated that as many as 8 million people living in Mexico, and Central and South America have Chagas disease. * Most cases of Chagas disease in the United States are chronic infec - tions; however, rare cases of acute congenital infections and autochthonous vectorborne transmission have been reported (2) . To understand how data are collected and used, a review of state-level public health surveillance for Chagas disease was conducted through semistructured interviews with health officials in six states (Arizona, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi Tennessee, and Texas) where Chagas disease is reportable and one (Massachusetts) where it was previously reportable. States implemented surveillance in response to blood donor screen - ing for Chagas disease and to identify the route of disease transmission. Many states reported primarily chronic cases and had limited ability to respond to local transmission because acute cases were infrequently reported. Surveillance remains important in states with large populations of immigrants or frequent travelers from countries with endemic disease and for states with a risk for local transmission. Surveillance efforts can also help increase awareness among providers and assist in linking patients with Chagas disease to treatment to help prevent cardiac and gastrointestinal complications. Chagas disease is spread via contact with infected vector insects (triatomines, also known as kissing bugs), congeni - tally, and rarely through organ transplantation or blood transfu - sion from an infected donor (3) . T. cruzi vectors and infected mammalian reservoirs are found throughout the United States (2) . The acute stage of Chagas disease is often asymptomatic, or flu-like symptoms will develop that can last up to 2 months after the 12-week incubation period (2) . Infants are at higher risk for developing severe manifestations, such as myocarditis or meningoencephalitis during the acute stage. If untreated, infection becomes chronic. Most patients with chronic infec - tion remain asymptomatic; however, 20%30% develop car - diac or gastrointestinal complications, which can be fatal (2) . Chagas disease is likely having an underrecognized impact on the health care system and economy because of limited screen - ing and treatment and a lack of awareness among health care * https: //www. cdc. gov/parasites/chagas/gen_info/detailed. html. professionals (4, 5) . With an undefined prevalence of disease and risk for transmission in the United States, surveillance for Chagas disease could help improve understanding of Chagas diseaseassociated cardiac morbidity and mortality, gastroin - testinal disease, and risk for congenital and autochthonous infections (6) . Timely recognition and treatment can prevent chronic infection and reduce health care needs. States where Chagas disease is or was previously listed as a reportable condition were identified using the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists database (https: //www. cste. org/group/SRCAQueryRes) and state health department websites. After reviewing the surveillance guidelines for each state, a qualitative questionnaire was formulated. Key infor - mant, semistructured interviews were conducted by telephone with epidemiologists from each state to identify why Chagas disease was designated a reportable condition, how cases are reported and by whom, what actions follow identification of a case, and how collected data are used and disseminated. State respondents were also asked whether data were collected on pregnant women at risk, infants born to infected mothers, nonhuman cases, or triatomine vectors. As of December 2017, Arizona, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Texas conduct surveillance for Chagas disease; Massachusetts discontinued surveillance in 2014. Surveillance activities were primarily stimulated by blood donor screening and are conducted with the purpose of identifying the source of transmission (Table 1) . Five of the six states where Chagas disease is reportable are notified of possible cases by blood donor centers, physicians, and laboratories; the majority of reports in most of these states are received from blood donor centers. All states investigate reported cases to determine where the exposure most likely occurred. The primary focus of case investigations in Arizona, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas is identification of local autochthonous transmission, whereas Arkansas and Tennessee collect data on all modes of transmission. Four states conduct routine environmental assessments at the patients residence if autochthonous exposure is suspected. The states, with input from CDC, provide education and guidance to physicians regarding the clinical management of Chagas disease. In Arkansas, the health department dissemi - nates Chagas disease health alerts to physicians, particularly obstetricians/gynecologists who care for pregnant women at risk. However, no state conducts surveillance specifically for Morbidity and Mortality Weekly ReportMMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 739 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and Preventioncongenital infections. Five states disseminate surveillance data through a report distributed to health care providers, and all six states post case counts on the state health department website or as an annual disease summary (Table 2) . None of the states includes nonhuman data as part of system - atic public health surveillance. When Chagas disease surveil - lance began in Texas in 2013, reports of canine infections were collected for 3 years, but state health officials discontinued this practice after determining that canine infection status was not useful for informing human risk. Although not systematically tracked, most states analyze submitted insects and, depend - ing on classification and likelihood of human contact, send triatomines to CDC for T. cruzi testing. Three states (Arizona, Texas, and Massachusetts) have made changes to their Chagas disease surveillance system since incep - tion. In Arizona, a new case definition was applied in 2016 to classify blood donor cases with respect to confirmatory testing results from the reference diagnostic laboratory at CDC. Texas updated the case definition to collect data on progression from asymptomatic chronic infection to clinical disease in reported cases to better understand the burden of disease on the health care system. In Massachusetts, Chagas disease was added to their reportable condition list in 2008 after the Food and Drug Administration approved the first screening test for T. cruzi infection in blood donors and donor screening was initiated. Recognizing that infected donors might be identified through screening and require evaluation and follow-up, Massachusetts public health officials wanted to increase awareness among health care providers in the state to ensure effective referral to care. However, Chagas disease surveillance demonstrated that donors at risk were infrequently identified, and the need for public health response was limited; thus, in 2014, Chagas disease was subsequently removed from the states list of report - able conditions. Discussion One goal of public health surveillance for Chagas disease in the United States is to identify local vectorborne transmission and inform strategies to prevent human infection. In Latin America, the risk for infection is high because triatomines infest TABLE 1. Summary of state surveillance for Chagas disease, including year each state began reporting and primary and secondary reasons for initiating surveillance  Chagas disease surveillance activities, seven states, * 2017 State Year reporting began Primary objectives for Chagas disease surveillance Reasons for initiating Chagas disease surveillance Arizona 2008 Identify source of infection; monitor acute and chronic disease burdenPresence of T. cruzi -positive triatomines in the state Arkansas 2013 Identify source of infection; monitor acute and chronic disease burdenUnderstand the potential burden of locally acquired, congenital, and imported cases; create awareness among physicians working with populations at risk Louisiana 2013 Identify source of infection; monitor incident cases Monitor incident cases; assess risk factors for local autochthonous transmission Mississippi 2010 Identify source of infection; monitor acute and chronic disease burdenDetermine whether cases identified by blood banks are caused by local autochthonous transmission; monitor extent of Chagas disease testing occurring at laboratories throughout the state Tennessee 2010 Identify source of infection; monitor acute and chronic disease burdenIdentification of T. cruzi -infected triatomines and nonhuman hosts during a serosurvey Texas 2013 Identify source of infection; monitor acute and chronic disease burdenMonitor incident cases; assess risk factors for local autochthonous transmission; increase awareness of physicians working with populations at risk Massachusetts 2008 Monitor chronic disease phase burden Ensure that blood donors identified through screening are referred for appropriate care * Information about Massachusetts surveillance of Chagas disease conducted from 2008 to 2014. . TABLE 2. Methods used to disseminate Chagas disease surveillance data in states where Chagas disease is reportable  six states, 2017 Dissemination methods Arkansas Arizona Louisiana Mississippi Tennessee Texas Peer-reviewed literature X Report to health care providers X X X X X Public report/website X X X X X X In-house report X Other X* * Texas Chagas taskforce creates awareness within Texas with subgroups of physicians, veterinarians, and entomologists. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 740 MMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and Preventionpoorly built housing structures, and peridomestic reservoirs are abundant. The risk for autochthonous transmission in the United States is considered low because of better housing conditions and a lack of transmission associated with domestic reservoirs, such as dogs, and human Chagas cases (1, 6) . With a low risk for local transmission and infrequently reported cases of acute infection, there are fewer opportunities for public health response (1) . With an estimated 63315 congenital T. cruzi infections occurring annually in the United States (5), focused surveil - lance efforts might be beneficial to identify congenital cases. Timely recognition of infection and treatment will prevent disease development in infected infants and reduce the risk for further transmission (7) . However, surveillance for congenital Chagas disease is challenging in the absence of routine prenatal or newborn screening. More research is needed to better define groups at risk for transmitting congenitally and to understand how to implement effective screening programs (1) . These states investigate reported cases for possible congenital trans - mission, but there are no separate surveillance efforts focused solely on congenital transmission. Awareness of Chagas disease as a public health problem in the United States increased after the introduction of blood donor screening for Chagas disease in 2007 (8) . As of December 2017, at least 2, 300 infected blood donors had been reported by blood banks across the United States (9) . Blood donor screen - ing facilitates recognition and treatment of chronically infected patients and serves as an important source of reported cases for surveillance. However, the rate (of positivity) derived from screening of donors underestimates the underlying prevalence of infection in the United States because of the relatively low rates of blood donation among foreign-born Latinos, who are more likely to be infected than are non-Hispanic whites and African Americans (10) . The findings in this report are subject to at least one limita - tion. The data used for this report might have been subject to recall bias because of the time between surveillance implemen - tation activities in each state and study interview. If resources are available, surveillance for Chagas disease might be important to conduct in states with large populations at risk, including frequent travelers from countries where the disease is endemic and states at risk for local autochthonous transmission (e. g. have infected mammalian reservoirs and appropriate triatomine vectors), to delineate the actual preva - lence of disease. Surveillance efforts can also help to increase awareness among providers, identify unmet health care needs for patients, and assist in linking patients with Chagas disease to treatment to help prevent cardiac and gastrointestinal com - plications. In addition, although the risk for transmission from mother to child is low in the United States, monitoring for congenital Chagas disease might be considered in states with communities at risk. Acknowledgment Gary Balsamo, Louisiana Department of Health. Conflict of Interest No conflicts of interests were reported. 1Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria, Center for Global Health, CDC; 2Arkansas Department of Health; 3Arizona Department of Health Services; 4Career Epidemiology Field Officer Program, CDC; 5Massachusetts Department of Public Health; 6Mississippi State Department of Health; 7Tennessee Department of Health; 8Texas Department of State Health Services. Corresponding author: Carolyne Bennett, CBennett4@cdc. gov, 404-718-6601. References 1. Cantey PT, Stramer SL, Townsend RL, et al. The United States Trypanosoma cruzi infection study: evidence for vector-borne transmission of the parasite that causes Chagas disease among United States blood donors. T ransfusion 2012; 52: 192230. https: //doi. org/10. 1111/j. 1537-2995. 2012. 03581. x 2. Montgomery SP, Starr MC, Cantey PT, Edwards MS, Meymandi SK. Neglected parasitic infections in the United States: Chagas disease. Am J T rop Med Hyg 2014; 90: 8148. https: //doi. org/10. 4269/ajtmh. 13-0726 3. World Health Organization. Control of Chagas disease. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2002. http: //apps. who. int/ iris/bitstream/10665/42443/1/WHO_TRS_905. pdf 4. Verani JR, Montgomery SP, Schulkin J, Anderson B, Jones JL. Survey of obstetrician-gynecologists in the United States about Chagas disease. Am J T rop Med Hyg 2010; 83: 8915. https: //doi. org/10. 4269/ ajtmh. 2010. 09-0543 5. Bern C, Montgomery SP. An estimate of the burden of Chagas disease in the United States. Clin Infect Dis 2009; 49: e524. https: //doi. org/10. 1086/605091 6. Bern C, Kjos S, Yabsley MJ, Montgomery SP. Trypanosoma cruzi and Chagas disease in the United States. Clin Microbiol Rev 2011; 24: 65581. https: //doi. org/10. 1128/CMR. 00005-11Summary What is already known about this topic? Most of the estimated 300, 000 cases of Chagas disease (caused by Trypanosoma cruzi infection) in persons living in the United States were acquired in countries where the disease is endemic. What is added by this report? In 2017, Chagas disease was reportable in six states. Most cases identified, including among blood donors, are chronic cases and are not the result of local vectorborne transmission. What are the implication for public health practice? Chagas disease surveillance remains important in states with frequent travelers from countries where the disease is endemic and with a risk for local transmission. Surveillance activities help increase awareness among public health professionals and physicians and can help link persons with chronic Chagas disease to treatment. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly ReportMMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 741 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 7. Cevallos AM, Hernndez R. Chagas disease: pregnancy and congenital transmission. BioMed Res Int 2014; 2014: 401864. https: //doi. org/10. 1155/2014/401864 8. Food and Drug Administration Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research. Amendment to guidance for industry: use of serological tests to reduce the risk of transmission of Trypanosoma cruzi infection in while blood and blood components intended for transfusion. Silver Spring, MD: US Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research; 2016. https: //www. fda. gov/downloads/BiologicsBloodVaccines/ GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/Blood/ UCM528600. pdf 9. AABB. Chagas Biovigilance Network: RIPA positive map. Bethesda, MD: AABB; 2017. http: //www. aabb. org/research/hemovigilance/Pages/ chagas. aspx 10. James AB, Josephson CD, Castillejo MI, Schreiber GB, Roback JD. Epidemiological profiles of foreign-born and US-born Hispanic blood donors in a major metropolitan area in the United States. J Blood T ransfus 2012; 2012: 820514. https: //doi. org/10. 1155/2012/820514Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 742 MMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and PreventionMeasles-Rubella Supplementary Immunization Activity Readiness Assessment  India, 20172018 Vandana Gurnani, MA1; Pradeep Haldar, MD1; Sudhir Khanal, MBBS2; Pankaj Bhatnagar, MD3; Balwinder Singh, MBBS3; Danish Ahmed, MBBS3; Mohammad Samiuddin, MBBS3; Arun Kumar, MSc3; Yashika Negi, MD1; Satish Gupta, MD4; Pauline Harvey, PhD3; Sunil Bahl, MD2; Alya Dabbagh, PhD5; James P. Alexander, MD6; James L. Goodson, MPH6 In 2013, during the 66th session of the Regional Committee of the World Health Organization (WHO) South-East Asia Region (SEAR), the 11 SEAR countries* adopted goals to eliminate measles and control rubella and congenital rubella syndrome by 2020 (1) . To accelerate progress in India (2, 3), a phased nationwide supplementary immunization activity (SIA) using measles-rubella vaccine and targeting approximately 410 million children aged 9 months14 years commenced in 2017 and will be completed by first quarter of 2019. To ensure a high-quality SIA, planning and preparation were monitored using a readiness assessment tool adapted from the WHO global field guide** (4) by the India Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. This report describes the results and experience gained from conducting SIA readiness assess - ments in 24 districts of three Indian states (Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, and Telangana) during the second phase of the SIA. In each selected area, assessments were conducted 46 weeks and 12 weeks before the scheduled SIA. At the first assess - ment, none of the states and districts were on track with preparations for the SIA. However, at the second assessment, two (67%) states and 21 (88%) districts were on track. The SIA readiness assessment identified several preparedness gaps; * The WHO South-East Asia Region consists of 11 countries: Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Indonesia, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, North Korea, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Timor-Leste.  Measles elimination is defined as the absence of endemic measles cases for a period of 12 months, in the presence of adequate surveillance. One indicator of measles elimination is a sustained measles incidence of less than one case per 1 million population. Rubella/congenital rubella syndrome control is defined as 95% reduction in disease prevalence from 2013 levels.  India states and union territories and target populations (in millions) included in SIA phase 1 were Tamil Nadu (17. 6), Karnataka (16. 03), Goa (0. 32), Puducherry (0. 30), Lakshadweep (0. 16), and in SIA phase 2 were Andhra Pradesh (11. 85), Chandigarh (0. 31), Daman & Diu (0. 05), Dadra & Nagar Haveli (0. 11), Telangana (9. 00), Himachal Pradesh (1. 77), Uttarakhand (2. 80), and Kerala (7. 65) .  SIAs generally are carried out using two target age ranges. An initial, nationwide catch-up SIA focuses on all children aged 9 months14 years, with the goal of eliminating susceptibility to measles in the general population. Periodic follow-up SIAs then focus on all children born since the last SIA. Follow-up SIAs generally are conducted nationwide every 24 years and focus on children aged 959 months; their goal is to eliminate any measles susceptibility that has developed in recent birth cohorts and to protect children who did not respond to the routine first dose of measles-containing vaccine. ** Although no readiness gaps have been identified in India, they have been identified in many countries and numerous campaigns, so WHO and partners developed a field guide for planning and implementing high-quality SIAs for global use; the readiness assessment tool was adapted from the field guide. early assessment results were immediately communicated to authorities and led to necessary corrective actions to ensure high-quality SIA implementation. Supplemental Immunization Activity Readiness Assessment Process SIA readiness assessments were conducted in 24 (41%) of the 58 districts in the states of Andhra Pradesh (seven districts), Kerala (five), and Telangana (12) . In addition, 74 (72%) of 103 blocks in Telangana were selected for readiness assessments. Districts and blocks were selected for assessment based on low routine vaccination coverage, difficult-to-reach populations, high proportion of urban to rural population, and categoriza - tion as polio high-risk based on polio risk assessments. The assessments were conducted by teams coordinated by the WHO India Country Office. The teams included members from the India Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, especially the Immunization Technical Support Unit, National Institute of Health and Family Welfare, and senior immunization program officers from other states; United Nations agencies, including WHO, United Nations Childrens Fund (UNICEF), and United Nations Development Program; and nongovernmental organi - zations, including John Snow Inc. , Global Health Strategies, CORE Group Polio Project, and others. The India SIA readiness assessment tool and checklists were adapted from the WHO field guide for planning and implementing SIAs (4) according to the India national measlesrubella SIA operational guidelines, for use at the national, state, district, and block levels. Assessment teams reviewed preparations in planning and coordination, advocacy, account - ability, management of adverse events following immunization, vaccines and logistics management, funding, and communica - tion, using checklists modified at each level based on expected functions of SIA components for that level (Table 1) . The checklists included questions with possible answers of yes or no. The overall percentage of affirmative responses was calculated, and the assessed area was categorized as on track (80%), needs work (60%79%), or not ready (<60%) . The first readiness assessment was conducted 46 weeks before the SIA and the second, 12 weeks before the SIA. A  A block is the third administrative unit, found within a district, and a planning unit is the lowest administrative unit of the health system, found within a block. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly ReportMMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 743 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and Preventiondecision either to start the SIA on the designated date or to delay the SIA until preparations were complete was made at the district and state levels, based on the second assessment score and categorization of the district or state assessed. Those areas categorized as on track were permitted to start the SIA (go); those categorized as not ready were delayed (delayed go); and those categorized as needing work either started or delayed the SIA, based on subjective evaluation by the assess - ment team of critical gaps and level of commitment to taking corrective actions in a timely manner. At the end of the assess - ment, evidence-based feedback from the teams was shared with health and administration leaders at district, state, and national levels to facilitate decision-making for strengthening the quality of this and future SIAs. Supplemental Immunization Activity Readiness Assessment Results At the first assessment, none of the three states and none of the 24 districts was on track (Table 2) . The challenges most frequently identified during the preparedness assessment were lack of logistics and training materials and nonengagement of schools. Based on feedback provided, state-level program man - agers initiated corrective actions in all districts. At the second assessment, Kerala and Telangana states were on track; Andhra TABLE 1. Questions on supplementary immunization activities readiness assessment checklist, by component  India, 20172018 Component Activity Planning and coordination State/District SIA Steering Committee met at least once? Did all essential government officials participate in at least one State Task Force for Immunization (STFI) meeting? * Circle those who did not participate: Permanent Secretary/State Education Officer/State Program Officer/Women and Child Development/Integrated Child Development Services/Minority Welfare Officer* Did essential non-governmental stakeholders participate in at least one STFI meeting? * Circle those who did not participate: Indian Medical Association (IMA) /Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP) /private practitioners/ LIONS International/religious leaders. * State/district Immunization Officer or other state level monitors using state checklist-A for tracking progress of state level preparedness? State/district Immunization Officer using checklist-B for tracking progress by visiting the priority districts? * State/district monitors identified for visiting the priority districts for assessing the SIA preparedness? State/district Education Officer communicated with all District Education Officer? State/district Program Officer communicated with all Child Development Project Officers? Has the state committee for adverse events following immunization (AEFI) met at least once? Sensitization meetings Sensitization meeting held with heads of IMA and IAP, including leading private practitioners? * Sensitization meeting held with district level Education Officers? Coordination meeting with state level representatives of public schools, private schools associations, religious institutions, etc. ? * Vaccine logistics and managementAdequate quantity of vaccine and diluents available per microplan? (consider planned staggered distribution of vaccine) Adequate quantity of auto-disable syringes and mixing syringes available per microplan? (consider planned staggered distribution of vaccine) Adequate quantity of indelible marker pens available per microplan? Vaccine distribution plan available for districts? Funds Has state received funds from the national level? Has state disseminated financial guidelines to all districts? Communication planning Is there a nodal officer, other than State EPI Officer, designated for SIA communication planning at state level? At least one joint meeting held for secretaries of Health, Education, other department? (check for official circular) State communication core group formed and held at least one meeting? (verify meeting minutes) * SIA communication plan prepared in a template as per operational guidelines? All districts/blocks have submitted communication plan in prescribed template? Received guidelines for communication activities including financial for SIA and shared with all districts? (check for official circular) * State/district implementing communication plan for underserved communities? (identified influencers, religious and educational institutions for support) * Was there discussion on communication planning in STFI? (verify meeting minutes) Communication and social mobilizationPrinted and distributed all IEC (Information, Education, and Communication) materials or guidelines? Identified local celebrities or champion for SIA? (verify how involved in SIA) State/district launch or inauguration for SIA? (confirm date for launch) Advocacy Sensitization meeting with religious leaders or influencers planned/held? Media and social media State/district has identified media spokesperson for the SIA? Media workshop planned at state level for SIA? (confirm dates for media workshop) Is an official or agency regularly tracking media and social media for SIA and immunization messages? (collect related news articles) * Task force for social media was formed? (confirm at least one responsible person designated at state level for managing social media) WhatsApp group (s) was formed for health, education, and immunization-related sectors? Facebook page was created for the SIA? (check the page for SIA post) * * These variables were considered to be critical and were evaluated subjectively by the assessment team to decide go or delayed go for an area marked as needs work.  The checklists used at state, district, planning unit, and school levels were modified to reflect the level-specific role and function for each component. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 744 MMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and PreventionTABLE 2. Supplementary immunization activity readiness assessment* results  three states, India, 20172018 SIA readiness assessment resultsState (no. of districts) Andhra Pradesh (7) Kerala (5) Telangana (12) First assessment Not ready, no. (%) 5 (71) 1 (20) 10 (83) Needs work, no. (%) 2 (29) 4 (80) 2 (17) On track, no. (%) 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0) Key findings State level trainings not started No SIA logistics plan available IEC materials not available IEC materials not available No schools aware of SIA No clarity on SIA financial guidelines Most schools not informed Trainings conducted without training materials Private schools not on board Medical fraternity not involved and informed about SIAHigh level of vaccine hesitancy and frank refusal in one districtInformal educational institutions, religious schools, madrasas not in target population Low level SIA awareness No clarity on financial guidelines for local implementersLow level preparedness for management of AEFI Language barriers Lack of SIA awareness Vaccine hesitancy in minority communities Actions taken Video conference with all districts by the principal secretary and by each district to all blocks to discuss assessment findings and plan corrective actionsSIA logistics made immediately available to the districtsVideo conference with all deputy commissioners, chief medical officers, and district immunization officers requesting immediate corrective actions Principal secretary visited all high-risk districts to get firsthand information on preparedness progress and next stepsMicroplans reviewed in all areas; additional field monitors deployed in high-risk districts and blocksMeeting with district education officers to develop plan; directives for noncompliant schools, meeting with heads of madrasas organized to encourage SIA participation Operational communication plan developed with all partners; all district microplans reviewedAdditional communication and social mobilization officers mobilized in areas with vaccine hesitancy and refusalProminent talk show personalities appear on local television channels; media release in Urdu language; video of prominent opinion leaders and religious leaders developed and circulated through social media platform Medical and Indian Academy of Pediatrics invited to participate in process and promote SIA in local newspaperMedical colleges and medical fraternity brought on board as support group to the SIADistrict magistrates briefed on assessment results; called all immunization offices and received regular updates on progress to accelerate preparedness Senior state officers visited high-risk areas to accelerate preparedness activities District AEFI committee reactivated and capacity building done Administrative processes to print and deploy materials were fast-tracked. Orientation on financial guidelines Meeting with district governors of Lions Clubs International and request to adopt problematic schools to accelerate SIA preparedness and awareness Second assessment Not ready, no. (%) 1 (14) 0 (0) 0 (0) Needs work, no. (%) 3 (43) 0 (0) 1 (8) On track, no. (%) 3 (43) 5 (100) 11 (92) Decision Delay Move forward Move forward % Administrative coverage, state (districts range) 97 (86 to >100) 89 (87 to 98) >100 (87 to >100) Abbreviations: AEFI = adverse events following immunization; IEC = information, education, and communication; SIA = supplementary immunization activity. * SIA readiness assessments during planning for phase 2 of the nationwide SIA using measles-rubella vaccine for children aged 9 months14 years that started in 2017. The first readiness assessment was conducted at 46 weeks before the SIA and the second assessment at 12 weeks before the SIA. Checklists had questions with possible answers of Yes or No.  Scoring was based on percentage of Yes responses, categorized as on track (80%), needs work (60%79%), and not ready (<60%) . Administrative coverage >100% indicated the intervention reached more persons than were in the estimated target population. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly ReportMMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 745 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and PreventionPradesh needed work and had to delay the start of the SIA to provide an additional week for preparation. Overall, 19 (79%) of the 24 districts were on track (including information, educa - tion, and communication [IEC] readiness), four (17%) needed additional work and undertook minor corrective actions, and one (4%) was not ready and had a delayed go. During the SIA, rapid convenience monitoring, a program - matic tool that identifies children not vaccinated during the campaign and compiles reasons for nonvaccination, deter - mined that 9, 912 (6. 9%) of all 143, 894 targeted children were not vaccinated during the SIA, including 7% (3, 314 of 44, 906) in Andhra Pradesh, 10% (1, 943 of 19, 408) in Kerala, and 6% (4, 659 of 79, 580) in Telangana (Figure) . Among all unvacci - nated children located through rapid convenience monitoring, the most frequently reported reason given by caregivers for not vaccinating was that the child was sick (3, 715; 37%), followed by lack of awareness of the campaign (1, 566; 16%) . In Kerala, refusal accounted for approximately a quarter of children who were not vaccinated. The least frequently reported reason (209; 2%) for nonvaccination was SIA operational gaps (e. g. , non - functioning vaccination sites, absent or late vaccinators, vac - cine stock-outs, and other logistics issues) (Figure) . Reported SIA administrative coverage was 95% in two states and 17 districts (Table 2) . Discussion Experience with the SIA assessment in India demonstrated that the WHO SIA readiness assessment tool and procedures were useful for ensuring preparedness for implementation of a high-quality SIA. Corrective actions implemented after the first assessment, which found that two thirds of districts were not ready for the SIA, resulted in 79% of districts being on track by the second assessment. Providing feedback to key decision-makers immediately after the assessments helped with planning and allocation of resources and facilitated implemen - tation of timely corrections. These midcourse corrections also might have resulted in further-reaching effects across each of the three states because of the statewide directives issued by immunization program managers for corrective actions in all districts to better prepare for this SIA and future SIAs. As suggested in the global guidelines, decision-makers in India used the terminology delayed go rather than no go in states and districts assessed as not ready for the measlesrubella SIA, to provide positive reinforcement to immunization program personnel who needed additional time for prepara - tion. Intra-SIA rapid convenience monitoring found that SIA operational gaps were the least common reason for children not being vaccinated, an indication of good preparation and implementation of campaign activities. The primary reasons for children not being vaccinated during the SIA were related to IEC gaps and challenges in addressing parental misperceptions FIGURE. Percentage of unvaccinated children, by reported primary reason for nonvaccination* during supplementary immunization activity (phase 2)  Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, and Telangana states, India, 20172018 0102030405060708090100 Child sick Concern about AEFIRefused Child travelling Unaware of SIA Operational/ Logistical issuesOtherPercentage of unvaccinated children Primary reason for nonvaccination during the SIAAndhra Pradesh (n = 3, 314) Kerala (n = 1, 943) Telangana (n = 4, 659) Total (n = 9, 912) Abbreviation: AEFI = Adverse events following immunization; MR = measles-rubella; SIA = supplementary immunization activity. * Intra-SIA monitoring using rapid convenience monitoring.  Nationwide SIA using MR vaccine for children aged 9 months14 years.  Phase 2 of phased nationwide SIA started in 2017 and to be completed by first quarter of 2019. Children targeted for vaccination during phase 2 of the SIA but not vaccinated included 7% in Andhra Pradesh, 10% in Kerala, and 6% in Telangana. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 746 MMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and Preventionand their lack of awareness of and availability for the SIA. These findings suggest that the WHO SIA readiness checklists section on IEC and communication strategies might need to be revised and expanded. Although WHO global guidance recommends four to six assessments before an SIA to ensure readiness, in this setting, only two pre-SIA assessments were designed and conducted in each area. Because the SIA readiness assessment process was part of the overall operational activities and covered by the existing technical assistance of WHO, UNICEF, and partners, no additional costs were budgeted for the activity. However, inclusion of more districts, blocks, and health centers in the process could help to ensure homogeneous quality of SIA implementation. The findings in this report are subject to at least two limi - tations. First, the selection of areas for readiness assessments included in this report was purposeful, and no control groups were available for comparison. Second, the impact of the readiness assessments on achieving the 95% SIA coverage target was not assessed by post-SIA surveys because of time and resource limitations and lack of a comparison group. The WHO South-East Asia Region aims to vaccinate >500 million children with measles-rubella vaccine through SIAs by 2019. The experience with pre-SIA assessments in India reported here will help improve preparedness for highquality SIAs, ensuring high vaccination coverage to achieve the regional goal of measles elimination and rubella and congenital rubella syndrome control by 2020. Conflict of Interest No conflicts of interest were reported. 1Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi, India; 2Immunization and Vaccine Development, World Health Organization Regional Office for South-East Asia, New Delhi, India; 3National Polio Surveillance Project, India Country Office, World Health Organization, New Delhi, India; 4India Country Office, United Nations Childrens Fund, New Delhi, India; 5Immunization and Vaccine Development, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland; 6Global Immunization Division, Center for Global Health, CDC. Corresponding author: Sudhir Khanal, khanals@who. int, +91-9650197391. References 1. World Health Organization; Regional Committee for the South-East Asia Region. Resolution SEA/RC66/R5: measles elimination and rubella/ congenital rubella syndrome control. New Delhi, India: World Health Organization; 2013. http: //www. searo. who. int/about/governing_bodies/ regional_committee/rc66-r5. pdf? ua=1 2. Dabbagh A, Patel MK, Dumolard L, et al. Progress toward regional measles eliminationworldwide, 20002016. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2017; 66: 114853. https: //doi. org/10. 15585/mmwr. mm6642a6 3. World Health Organization Regional Office of South-East Asia. Strategic plan for measles elimination and rubella and congenital rubella syndrome control in the South-East Asia Region20142020. New Delhi, India: World Health Organization, Regional Office for South East Asia; 2014. http: //apps. who. int/iris/handle/10665/205923 4. World Health Organization. Planning and implementing high quality supplementary immunization activities for injectable vaccines using an example of measles and rubella vaccine: field guide. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2016. http: //www. who. int/immunization/ diseases/measles/SIA-Field-Guide. pdfSummary What is already known about this topic? India has adopted a goal for measles elimination and rubella and congenital rubella syndrome control by 2020 by achieving high coverage with 2 routine doses of measles-containing vaccine and supplemental immunization activities (SIAs), which require substantial preparation. What is added by this report? Two pre-SIA readiness assessments in 24 districts in three states provided feedback to decision-makers that led to corrective actions. Readiness improved from 33% to 79% between the two assessments. What are the implications for public health practice? The WHO South-East Asia Region aims to vaccinate >500 million children with measles-rubella vaccine through SIAs by 2019. The experience with pre-SIA assessments can help improve prepared - ness and ensure high coverage through SIAs in the region. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly ReportMMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 747 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and PreventionNotes from the Field Adverse Event Associated with Unintentional Exposure to the Brucella abortus RB51 Vaccine  Oregon, December 2017 Sarah M. Hatcher, PhD1, 2; David Shih, MD1, 3; Jacobey Holderman4; Caitlin Cossaboom, DVM, PhD1, 5; Richard Leman, MD3; Emilio DeBess, DVM3 On December 7, 2017, a previously healthy, middle-aged male veterinarian was evaluated at an Oregon emergency department (ED) for cough, malaise, myalgia, fever, and arthralgia of 4 days duration. The patient reported having sustained a needle stick while administering the Brucella abortus strain RB51 vaccine (RB51) to cattle 3 weeks before symptom onset. While the patient was in the ED, a probable diagnosis of brucellosis was considered, but Brucella testing was not performed. After a chest radiograph, the patient was discharged with a doxycycline prescription for right upper lobe pneumonia. On December 11, the patient returned to the ED with worsening pneumonia. At that time, the Oregon Health Authority Public Health Division (OPHD) was notified of the probable brucellosis case. The patient was hospitalized and began oral rifampin and intravenous ceftriaxone and azithro - mycin, and continued oral doxycycline treatments. OPHD and the local health jurisdiction provided RB51-specific treatment and testing recommendations to clinicians and provided guid - ance for laboratory biosafety precautions through coordination with the Oregon State Public Health Laboratory. As a result, the hospitalist discontinued rifampin, continued doxycycline, and started trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) . By 3 days after admission, the patients symptoms had improved, and he was discharged and prescribed doxycycline and TMP/ SMX for 60 days, which is the recommended treatment for human RB51 infections (1) . Blood and sputum cultures col - lected at admission were later negative for Brucella spp. During reinterview, the patient confirmed that his only known RB51 exposure was the needle stick. Although he administered the vaccine regularly and was aware of its potential for pathogenic - ity in humans, he had not sought the recommended postexpo - sure prophylaxis of doxycycline and TMX/SMX for 21 days (1) . Brucellosis is a zoonotic bacterial disease of humans and many animal species, with a low infectious dose in humans (1) . Occupational Brucella spp. exposures most commonly affect veterinarians, health care workers, and laboratorians. RB51 is a live-attenuated vaccine, approved for use as part of the Brucellosis Eradication Program in the mid-1990s (2) . It is resistant to rifampin, a first-line treatment choice for human brucellosis, and does not induce an antibody response detectable by commercially available serologic assays, requiring culture for confirmation (1) . Human infections with RB51 most commonly result from needle-stick injuries, which are relatively common and underreported among veterinarians (3) . In a summary of RB51 exposures reported to CDC during 19981999, seven of 26 (27%) persons reported persistent ill - nesses with symptoms similar to those reported by this patient (2) . Although killed by pasteurization and not commonly shed in milk, RB51 recently gained attention nationwide during investigation of cases and exposures after raw (unpasteurized) milk consumption in Texas and New Jersey (4, 5) . These cases highlighted the lack of awareness of the unique challenges in diagnosing and treating RB51 infections in humans. This report serves as a reminder that occupational RB51 exposure is a risk among veterinary personnel. Clinicians, laboratory staff members, and public health officials should be aware of RB51 diagnosis and treatment challenges and be prepared to manage RB51 cases and exposures. State and local health jurisdictions should consider regular communication with veterinary and laboratory communities regarding occu - pational RB51 exposures and can serve as a resource to clini - cians unfamiliar with management of human RB51 Brucella infections and exposures. Conflict of Interest No conflicts of interest were reported. 1Epidemic Intelligence Service, CDC; 2Northwest T ribal Epidemiology Center, Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board, Portland, Oregon; 3Public Health Division, Oregon Health Authority, Portland, Oregon; 4Baker County Health Department, Oregon; 5Division of High Consequence Pathogens and Pathology, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, CDC. Corresponding author: Sarah M. Hatcher, lxj9@cdc. gov, 513-841-4526. References 1. CDC. Brucellosis reference guide: exposures, testing, and prevention. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2017. https: //www. cdc. gov/brucellosis/pdf/brucellosi-reference-guide. pdf 2. Ashford DA, di Pietra J, Lingappa J, et al. Adverse events in humans associated with accidental exposure to the livestock brucellosis vaccine RB51. Vaccine 2004; 22: 34359. https: //doi. org/10. 1016/j. vaccine. 2004. 02. 041 3. Weese JS, Jack DC. Needlestick injuries in veterinary medicine. Can Vet J 2008; 49: 7804. 4. Cossaboom CM, Kharod GA, Salzer JS, et al. Notes from the field: Brucella abortus vaccine strain RB51 infection and exposures associated with raw milk consumptionWise County, Texas, 2017. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2018; 67: 286. https: //doi. org/10. 15585/mmwr. mm6709a4 5. CDC. People in four states may be drinking contaminated raw milk. Atlanta, GA: US Department of Health and Human Services, CDC; 2017. https: // www. cdc. gov/media/releases/2017/p1121-contaminated-raw-milk. htmlMorbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 748 MMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and PreventionNotes from the Field HIV Testing in Health Care Facilities  Lesotho, 2017 Tony Isavwa1; Mosilinyane Letsie2; Puleng Ramphalla3 Lesotho, a small mountainous country surrounded by South Africa, has a population of approximately 2 million persons and an estimated annual income of $1, 210 per capita; 73% of the population resides in rural areas (1) . Lesotho has a generalized human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) epidemic (2) . During 20162017, the prevalence of HIV among persons 1559 years of age was 25. 6%, with an incidence of 1. 5 new infections per 100 person-years of exposure (3) . As the leading cause of premature death in Lesotho, HIV, including acquired immu - nodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), has contributed to Lesotho having the shortest life expectancy at birth among 195 coun - tries and territories (4) . Antiretroviral therapy (ART) coverage among persons living with HIV is estimated to be 69. 6% (3) . Measures to achieve the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS) targets of 90% of all persons with HIV infection knowing their HIV status, 90% of all persons with diagnosed HIV infection receiving sustained ART, and 90% of all persons receiving ART achieving viral suppression (909090) (5) have been hampered, in part, by an inability to identify undiagnosed persons with HIV infection. During 20162017, 77. 2% of persons with HIV infection in Lesotho knew their status (3) . The Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) supports HIV testing services in 121 health care facilities (113 health centers and eight hospitals) in five of Lesothos 10 districts. The five PEPFAR-supported districts account for approximately 75% of all HIV-positive persons in the country (6) . During the last full fiscal year for which data were available (October 1, 2016September 30, 2017), a total of 567, 062 (70. 7%) of 801, 654 tests supported by PEPFAR were conducted in these 121 health care facilities. During May 1September 30, 2017, a total of 414, 907 persons attended outpatient departments in selected PEPFARsupported health care facilities, including 64, 537 (15. 6%) who had previously tested HIV-positive and 189, 864 (45. 8%) who had tested negative within the preceding 3 months, leaving 160, 506 (38. 7%) persons eligible for HIV testing. Among these persons, 135, 563 (84. 5%) consented to testing, which identified 6, 759 (5. 0%) persons with newly diagnosed HIV infection. Thus, 389, 964 (94. 0%) persons attending these outpatient departments knew their HIV status (including 71, 296 [18. 3%] who were HIV-positive) before leaving the facility. Similarly, among 5, 927 persons admitted to the eight PEPFAR-supported hospitals during this period, 1, 029 (17. 4%) patients had previously tested positive for HIV, including 133 (7. 9%) of 1, 687 children aged <15 years and 896 (21. 1%) of 4, 240 persons aged 15 years. In addition, 3, 534 (59. 6%) admitted patients had tested negative for HIV during the previous 3 months, resulting in 1, 364 hospitalized patients being eligible for testing during their admission. Among these, 1, 298 (95. 2%) consented; 120 (9. 2%) persons tested positive, including 21 (4. 0%) of 526 children aged <15 years and 99 (12. 8%) of 772 persons aged 15 years. Hospital-based HIV testing resulted in 5, 861 (98. 9%) hospitalized patients know - ing their HIV status before discharge, with 1, 149 (19. 6%) being positive. Positivity rates ranged from 9. 2% (154/1, 673) among children aged <15 years to 23. 8% (995/4, 188) among persons aged 15 years. Lesotho has achieved close to 100% HIV testing coverage among hospitalized patients at PEPFAR-supported facilities and is approaching this level among patients seen in selected outpatient departments. In both facility-based testing and community-based testing (i. e. , testing done outside health care facilities), testing is being expanded to reach family members and intimate contacts of HIV-positive persons and to promote self-testing (6) . For Lesotho to achieve epidemic control, all health care facilities need to achieve high HIV testing services coverage. Measures to increase testing for groups with histori - cally poor coverage, including men and adolescents, are needed (7) . Some strategies include establishment of clinics for men, adolescent corners in existing health care facilities, and expan - sion of community-based HIV testing to reach and cater to the unique needs of underserved populations. Acknowledgments Lesotho Ministry of Health; Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief Lesotho Team. Conflict of Interest No conflicts of interest were reported. 1Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, Washington, D. C. ; 2Lesotho Ministry of Health; 3Division of Global HIV and T uberculosis, Center for Global Health, CDC. Corresponding author: Puleng Ramphalla, pramphalla@cdc. gov, +266-5887-0637. References 1. World Bank. Data: Lesotho. New York, NY: World Bank; 2017. https: // data. worldbank. org/country/lesotho 2. Coburn BJ, Okano JT, Blower S. Current drivers and geographic patterns of HIV in Lesotho: implications for treatment and prevention in sub-Saharan Africa. BMC Med 2013; 11: 224. https: //doi. org/10. 1186/1741-7015-11-224Morbidity and Mortality Weekly ReportMMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 749 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention3. Population-based HIV Impact Assessment Project. Lesotho populationbased HIV impact assessment. New York, NY: ICAP at Columbia University; 2018. http: //phia. icap. columbia. edu/countries/lesotho/ 4. Wang H, Naghavi M, Allen C, et al. Global, regional, and national life expectancy, all-cause mortality, and cause-specific mortality for 249 causes of death, 19802015: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015. Lancet 2016; 388: 14591544. https: //doi. org/10. 1016/S0140-6736 (16) 31012-1 5. Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS. 909090: an ambitious treatment target to help end the AIDS epidemic. Geneva, Switzerland: Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS; 2014. http: //www. unaids. org/sites/default/files/media_asset/90-90-90_en. pdf6. US Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. Lesotho country operational plan (COP/ROP) 2017: strategic direction summary. Washington, DC: US Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief; 2017. https: //www. pepfar. gov/documents/organization/272218. pdf 7. World Health Organization. Guidelines on HIV self-testing and partner notification: supplement to consolidated guidelines on HIV testing services. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization; 2016. http: // apps. who. int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/251655/9789241549868-eng. pdf; jsessionid=E79A72773FF6169FD9DFFE785347545E? sequence=1Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 750 MMWR / July 6, 2018 / Vol. 67 / No. 26 US Department of Health and Human Services/Centers for Disease Control and PreventionQuickStats FROM THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR HEALTH STATISTICS Percentage of Injury Deaths* That Occurred in the Decedents Home for the Five Most Common Causes of Injury Death  United States, 2016 0102030405060100 All injury Motor vehicle tracFirearm Poisoning Fall SuocationPercentage Cause of injury death * Includes deaths from all intents (i. e. , unintentional injuries, suicides, homicides, deaths of undetermined intent, and deaths attributed to legal intervention) .  Poisoning includes both drug overdoses and nondrug intoxications (e. g. , poisonings due to toxic substances or gases such as carbon monoxide) . Suffocation includes hanging, asphyxiation, smothering, and other mechanical and nonmechanical threats to oxygenation (e. g. , trapped in low oxygen environment) . Causes are mutually exclusive.  Total number of deaths by cause of injury: all injury (231, 991), poisoning (68, 995), firearm (38, 658), suffocation (18, 924), fall (35, 862), and motor vehicle traffic (38, 748) . Place of death was unknown for 112 deaths. In 2016, 31% of deaths from all causes of injury occurred in the persons home. The percentage varied by the cause of injury. More than half of the deaths attributable to poisoning (52%) occurred in the home. Approximately 44% of deaths from firearms and suffocation occurred in the home. Source: National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Mortality File. https: //www. cdc. gov/nchs/nvss/deaths. htm. Reported by: Holly Hedegaard, MD, HHedegaard@cdc. gov, 301-458-4460. For more information on this topic, CDC recommends the following link: https: //www. cdc. gov/injury. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report ISSN: 0149-2195 (Print) The Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) Series is prepared by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and is available free of charge in electronic format. To receive an electronic copy each week, visit MMWR at https: //www. cdc. gov/mmwr/index. html. Readers who have difficulty accessing this PDF file may access the HTML file at https: //www. cdc. gov/mmwr/index2018. html. Address all inquiries about the MMWR Series, including material to be considered for publication, to Executive Editor, MMWR Series, Mailstop E-90, CDC, 1600 Clifton Rd. , N. E. , Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 or to mmwrq@cdc. gov. All material in the MMWR Series is in the public domain and may be used and reprinted without permission; citation as to source, however, is appreciated. Use of trade names and commercial sources is for identification only and does not imply endorsement by the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services. References to non-CDC sites on the Internet are provided as a service to MMWR readers and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CDC or the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services. CDC is not responsible for the content of these sites. URL addresses listed in MMWR were current as of the date of publication.","summary":""}